---
title: "In Reply"
description: My reply to a letter that my daughter wrote to me.
date: 2007-01-24
last_modified_at: 2025-07-13
categories: [Family, Immediate]
tags: [daughter, help, present, pride, eternal]
excerpt: I was there
pin: false
toc: true
---

*Background: My daughter, Sarah, wrote a letter to me on her 19th birthday. This letter is lost. I imagine that she must have been thanking me for a birthday present. In her letter to me, she also thanked me for always being there for her during the difficult moments in her life. This was my reply.*


Dear Sarah,

In reply to your ‘You Were There...’ letter.

I was there when you sighed with longing as you showed me your friend’s brand-new expensive motorcycle. I have always told you that true wealth is not about having money and owning things.

I was there when you got 94% (or was it 99%?) in your art exam. Well done! You were so happy and proud, as was I! I have always told you that it is art, not science, that is the bedrock of creation. I truly believe that this world needs more artists and philosophers like you, and I have always told you that despite your high marks, there is always room for improvement.

I was there when you were awarded the white full-honours braiding for your school blazer. I have always told you how important it is for awards and honours to be worn also around your heart and mind.

I was there when you cried in your bedroom when your Grandfather died. I helped you understand the ugly consequence of neglect masquerading as well-intentioned delay. 

I was there when Thomasina accidentally set free your budgie Cordy — how you cried and cried — I saw his empty cage on the roof with the little door held open with a peg. I helped you understand despair and grief. You learned an adult lesson at such a young age.

I was there when you wanted to be away with friends and away from family, and I helped you understand how your growing up is also difficult for others. 

I was there when you cried when Rudi broke up with you, and I helped you understand that roses and thorns go hand in hand.  

I was there with you in the kitchen, covered in flour, when you learned all about baking biscuits and little cakes and playdough for Little Star Preschool.

I was there every time you did the overheads for the choir, Sunday after Sunday after Sunday. I helped you understand that responsibility can sometimes be a grind.

I was there when you made your First Holy Communion. How true that is. The whole of Heaven sang with you!  

I was there when you were baptised, washed clean, and welcomed into the Family of families. Believe me when I say that everyone in Heaven danced, clapped and stomped their feet! What a morning!

I was there when you first walked.

I was there when you first spoke.

I was there when you first gasped for air.

I was there when you were given a soul, came into being, at the moment of your conception. (Yes, I also know how you don’t like talking about this!). I have always said that Creation and procreation are inseparable.

I bet you think your Dad wrote this letter.

Well, unlike your Dad, of whom you rightly said, ‘You were there…’, I was there always. I was there before you were born, before your parents were born, before your grandparents and their parents before them were born. I was there before ‘before’ was born …and I have always known you and loved you.

I am always there in your then.

I am, and will be, always there in your now.

I am always there in your to come.

I am there, for I Am.

I am there.

I Am
